# Migration Guide: v2 to v3

Version 3 of the client tools contain several breaking changes. This document describes the changes that need to be made to migrate from version 2 to version 3.


# ASP.NET Core Authentication

For simple authentication cases (i.e. those that use the default session cookie-based `ITokenStore`), the call to register Industrial App Store services and authentication schemes is unchanged:

```csharp
builder.Services.AddIndustrialAppStoreAuthentication(options => {
    // Bind the settings from the app configuration to the Industrial App Store 
    // authentication options.
    configuration.GetSection("IAS").Bind(options);

    // Redirect to our login page when an authentication challenge is issued.
    options.LoginPath = new PathString("/Account/Login");
});
```

Note however, that the return type of the `AddIndustrialAppStoreAuthentication` extension method has changed from `IServiceCollection` to `IIndustrialAppStoreBuilder`.

Additionally, the `IndustrialAppStoreAuthenticationOptions.ConfigureHttpClient` property has been removed. If you were using this property to configure the HTTP client registration for the Industrial App Store API client, this must now be done using the `AddApiClient` extension method for `IIndustrialAppStoreBuilder` instead:

```csharp
builder.Services
    .AddIndustrialAppStoreAuthentication(options => {
        // Configure options as normal here.
    })
    .AddApiClient(configureHttpBuilder: http => http
        // Add configuration-based resilience handling 
        // via Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience.
        .AddStandardResilienceHandler(builder.Configuration));
```


# Changes to API Client Types

You should use the `IndustrialAppStoreHttpClient` class to query the Industrial App Store APIs and the `DataCoreHttpClient` class to query an on-premises Data Core instance. Generic versions of these classes and other derived types (such as `BackchannelIndustrialAppStoreHttpClient`) have been removed.


## Removal of Context Parameter from API Methods

The API client types no longer define a context parameter type (such as an `HttpContext`) that can be specified as a parameter when calling an API method.

You will likely have to refactor all API calls in your application (in particular ASP.NET Core applications that call Industrial App Store APIs) to remove the context parameter from each API method call.


## Authenticating Outgoing API Requests

Instead of passing a context parameter to each API call to provide authentication information, both `IndustrialAppStoreHttpClient` and `DataCoreHttpClient` now expect the `HttpClient` passed to their constructor to be pre-configured to supply all the authentication information required to be able to authenticate outgoing requests.

If you are not using dependency injection to create `IndustrialAppStoreHttpClient` or `DataCoreHttpClient` instances, you can manually modify default request headers on the `HttpClient` used by the API client, or use a custom `DelegatingHandler` to modify outgoing requests.

If you are using dependency injection in your application, you can replace the `IIndustrialAppStoreHttpFactory` service type with a custom implementation. `IIndustrialAppStoreHttpFactory` is used by the DI system to create `HttpMessageHandler` instances for `IndustrialAppStoreHttpClient` and `DataCoreHttpClient` instances. The default implementation simply uses the `Microsoft.Extensions.Http.IHttpMessageHandlerFactory` service to create shared `HttpMessageHandler` instances. You can replace this service with a custom implementation that creates `HttpMessageHandler` instances with the required authentication headers.

```csharp
builder.Services
    .AddIndustrialAppStoreAuthentication(options => {
        // Configure options as normal here.
    })
    .AddHttpFactory<MyHttpFactory>();


internal sealed class MyHttpFactory : IndustrialAppStoreHttpFactory {

    public MyHttpFactory(IHttpMessageHandlerFactory handlerFactory) 
        : base(handlerFactory) { }

    protected override HttpMessageHandler CreateHandler() {
        // Base implementation obtains a shared handler instance 
        // from the IHttpMessageHandlerFactory
        var primaryHandler = base.CreateHandler();

        // MyDelegatingHandler is a custom DelegatingHandler that 
        // sets authentication headers on outgoing requests.
        var accessTokenHandler = new MyDelegatingHandler();
        accessTokenHandler.InnerHandler = primaryHandler;
        return accessTokenHandler;
    }

}
```

> Note that in ASP.NET Core applications that use the IntelligentPlant.IndustrialAppStore.Authentication library, it is not necessary to manually replace the default `IIndustrialAppStoreHttpFactory` service. The library automatically replaces the default service with one that uses the registered `ITokenStore` service to obtain access tokens for outgoing API requests.
